Irelia
  Runes
    Standard
      Quints: 3 Attack Speed
        Scale well with her W which is her main source of damage and is frequently maxed first, scales well with Rageblade and BOTRK, helps last hit
      Reds: 9 Attack Damage
        Scales well with her Q and R, scales well with Trinity and Ghostblade, good vs fragile opponents helps last hit
      Yellows: 9 Scaling Armor Yellows
        Scales well with her W, generally plays a passively in lane before level 4
      Blues: 9 Scaling Magic Resistance
        Scales well with her W, most early magic damage can be mitigated by sustain or dodging their abilities
    Vs Tanks
      Quints: 3 Attack Speed
      Reds: 9 Attack Speed
        Extra attack speed is used against more durable opponents, more attack speed leads to more hits from W which makes longer fights more favorable
      Yellows: 9 Scaling Armor Yellows
      Blues: 9 Scaling Magic Resistance
  Masteries
    Setup 1
      18/0/12
        Take Fervor of Battle because Irelia itemizes for Attack Speed
        Take Insight to make laning easier and to make more TP plays
  Items
  Core
    Trinity Force
      Irelia is able to trigger Sheen often, mainly with her ultimate. Her Q procs on hit effects so it works well with Sheen and Phage. She benefits from every stat on Trinity Force.
  Offense
    Hexdrinker
      Scales with Q and R. Works well against burst/lots of AP
    Sterak’s Gage
      Great 2nd item especially for team-fighting. Helps your Q execute minions later into the game. Good against squishies.
    Blade of the Ruined King
      Split push item. Good vs Tanks. Great 1 vs 1 power.
  Armor
    Ninja Tabi
      Good when they don’t have a lot of CC or the CC can be dodged easily. Great rush in lane against physical poke.
    Thornmail
      Great for when you’re stacking armor. Buy vs multiple auto attackers or their ADC is their only threat. 4th or 5th item usually.
    Frozen Heart
      Good follow up item to a health item. 
    Randuin’s Omen
      Good as a follow up to Trinity, Health + Resistance Items make you the tankiest in the mid game
    Deadman’s Plate
      TODO test
  Magic Resistance
    Mercury Treads
      Good vs numerous(how many?) CCs or a reliable hard CC that will frequently be targeted at you
    Guardian Angel
      Great late game item, 4th item usually, allows you to dive the backline much easier
    Spirit Visage
      Good as a follow up to Trinity, Health + Resistance Items make you the tankiest in the mid game
  Matchups
    Renekton
    Nasus
    Hecarim
    Jax
    Rumble

